Add security best practices reference guide (#651)
surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com: doc-surrealdb_versioned_docs/version-2.x/reference-guide/security-best-practices.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Security Best Practices
title: Security Best Practices | Reference guides
description: This guide outlines some key security best practices for using SurrealDB 2.0. While SurrealDB offers powerful and flexible features to support you in meeting your desired security standards, the use that you make of those features will ultimately determine whether or not you meet them.
---
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import { SurrealistMini } from "@site/src/components/SurrealistMini";

# Security Best Practices

> This guide outlines some key security best practices for using SurrealDB 2.0. While SurrealDB offers powerful and flexible features to support you in meeting your desired security standards, the use that you make of those features will ultimately determine whether or not you meet them. The following is a non-exhaustive list of security best practices that you should take into account when building services and applications with SurrealDB to help you address common security challenges while preventing frequent pitfalls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide outlines some key security best practices for using SurrealDB `v2.x.x`. While SurrealDB offers powerful and flexible features to help you meet your desired security standards, your use of those features will ultimately determine whether or not you meet them. 

The following is a non-exhaustive list of security best practices you should consider when building services and applications with SurrealDB to help you address common security challenges while preventing frequent pitfalls.
```

## Capabilities

> When running a SurrealDB server, you are able to configure the [capabilities](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/security/capabilities) that it will have. These capabilities are disabled by default to expose as little attack surface as possible to malicious actors. We strongly discourage running SurrealDB with all capabilities enabled without a good reason for it. Instead, we recommend enabling only the capabilities that are necessary to your service.
> 
> Whenever you need to enable a specific capability, we recommend that you do it on a case by case basis instead of generally. For example, if you know that your queries need to be able to parse emails using functions, we recommend you run SurrealDB with the `--allow-funcs parse::email::*`  flag instead of allowing all functions with `--allow-funcs` without any arguments. This ensures that your SurrealDB instance will not be affected by vulnerabilities in the code of any other functions that a malicious actor could leverage to increase their privileges or execute unauthorized code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running a SurrealDB server, you can configure the [capabilities](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/capabilities) for your SurrealQL queries. These capabilities are disabled by default to expose as little attack surface as possible to malicious actors. We strongly discourage running SurrealDB with all capabilities enabled without a good reason. Instead, we recommend enabling only the capabilities necessary for your service.

Whenever you need to enable a specific capability, we recommend doing it on a case-by-case basis instead of generally. For example, suppose you know that your queries need to be able to parse emails using functions. In that case, we recommend you run SurrealDB with the ` --allow-funcs parse::email::* ` flag instead of allowing all functions with` --allow-funcs` without arguments. 
Doing this ensures that your SurrealDB instance will not be affected by vulnerabilities in the code of any other functions that a malicious actor could leverage to increase their privileges or execute unauthorized code.
```

> **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Allow UUIDv4 and deny MD5
```

Author: This should be "Allow all cryptographic functions except MD5 and allow UUIDv4".

Reviewer: Updated

```bash
# Allow SurrealDB to generate UUIDv4 and call any crypto function except MD5.
surreal start --allow-funcs "crypto","rand::uuid::v4" --deny-funcs "crypto::md5"
```

> Such a practice becomes specially important in the case of the network capability, which allows SurrealDB to perform network requests such as those required by the [`http::*` functions](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/functions/database/http). Allowing untrusted users to perform network requests from your SurrealDB instance can allow them access to its local network or services that specifically allow network access from that instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using capabilities becomes especially important in the case of the network capability, which allows SurrealDB to perform network requests such as those required by the [`http::*` functions](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/functions/database/http). Allowing untrusted users to perform network requests from your SurrealDB instance can allow them access to its local network or services that specifically allow network access from that instance.
```

Author: By "such a practice" I meant only allowing specific instances of a capability.

> **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Allow HTTP GET requests to a specific API
```

```bash
# Allow SurrealDB to perform HTTP GET requests over to a specific API over TLS.
surreal start --allow-funcs "http::get" --allow-net "api.example.com:443"
```

## Passwords

> If you require storing passwords for your users, do not rely on table or field permissions to keep them private. In the event that your application or database is compromised, these passwords would become known by the attacker. Instead, use the [password hashing functions](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/functions/database/crypto) provided by SurreaDB such  as `crypto::argon2::*`, `crypto::bcrypt::*`, `crypto::pbkdf2::*` and  `crypto::scrypt::*` . These functions ensure that irreversible cryptographic hashes are stored instead of the original passwords, so that the passwords from your users remain safe even in the event of a compromise.
> 
> Do not use other cryptographic hash functions (e.g. `crypto::md5`, `crypto::sha1` , `crypto::sha512`) for hashing passwords, even if you do use an additional salt. These functions are designed to be efficient in computing, which will benefit an attacker that sets out to crack any hashes that they may have obtained from the compromise of your application. Hash functions intended for password hashing already incorporate a salt as well as other mechanisms to prevent hash cracking by making the computation of such hashes less efficient. This mitigates password cracking at scale at the small cost of adding a few milliseconds delay while checking credentials for legitimate users.
> 
> Even it you only store password hashes, it is a good practice to additionally use field permissions to prevent unauthorised access to the password hashes, which could allow an attacker to perform inefficient but potentially effective attacks such as testing candidate passwords against a specific hash. For even better security, you may store passwords in a separate table and use table permissions to disallow all access to that table. Due to their internal implementation, table permissions provide additional security compared to field permissions.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compromised, these passwords will become known by the attacker. 

Instead, use the [password hashing functions](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/functions/database/crypto) provided by SurreaDB, such as `crypto::argon2::*`, `crypto::bcrypt::*`, `crypto::pbkdf2::*` and `crypto::scrypt::*`. These functions ensure that irreversible cryptographic hashes are stored instead of the original passwords so that your users' passwords remain safe even in the event of a compromise.

:::note
__Note:__ Do not use other cryptographic hash functions (e.g. `crypto::md5`, `crypto::sha1` , `crypto::sha512`) for hashing passwords, even if you use an additional salt.
::: 

These functions are designed to be efficient in computing, which will benefit an attacker who sets out to crack any hashes they may have obtained from the compromise of your application. Hash functions intended for password hashing already incorporate a salt and other mechanisms to prevent hash cracking by making the computation of such hashes less efficient. This mitigates password cracking at scale at the small cost of adding a few milliseconds delay while checking credentials for legitimate users.

Even if you only store password hashes, it is a good practice to additionally use field permissions to prevent unauthorized access to the password hashes, which could allow an attacker to perform inefficient but potentially effective attacks such as testing candidate passwords against a specific hash. For even better security, you may store passwords in a separate table and use table permissions to disallow all access to that table. Due to their internal implementation, table permissions provide additional security compared to field permissions.
```

Author: The "These functions are designed to be efficient in computing, which will benefit an attacker who sets out to crack any hashes they may have obtained from the compromise of your application." part of the third paragraph refers to the functions that you SHOULD NOT use. It should be inside of the warning if we do want to use that format.

Author: I have addressed this in [d56a22c](https://github.com/surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com/pull/651/commits/d56a22c380c2d35275ec64ebc264ac3c1f21e194). I think the warning is a nice touch but I believe is unnecessary given that this whole guide is essentially a list of warnings. This prevents splitting the paragraph that relates to the content in the warning or having a warning that is too long.

Reviewer: That's a fair point. The note would have been bloated anyways

> **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Securely store user passwords
```

Author: Although I know what you mean by it, I would not say "store user passwords" as the passwords are never stored. I would probably say "Securely authenticate users with a password".

Reviewer: How do hash read?

Author: That's good too!

```surql
DEFINE TABLE user SCHEMAFULL
  -- Only allow users to query their own record, including their password.
	PERMISSIONS
		FOR select, update, delete WHERE id = $auth.id;

DEFINE FIELD name ON user TYPE string;
DEFINE FIELD email ON user TYPE string ASSERT string::is::email($value);
DEFINE FIELD password ON user TYPE string;

DEFINE INDEX email ON user FIELDS email UNIQUE;

DEFINE ACCESS user ON DATABASE TYPE RECORD
	SIGNUP (
		CREATE user CONTENT {
			name: $name,
			email: $email,
			password: crypto::argon2::generate($password) -- Use Argon2 to generate the hash.
		}
	)
	SIGNIN (
		SELECT * FROM user WHERE email = $email AND
		  crypto::argon2::compare(password, $password) -- Use Argon2 to compare the hashes.
	);
```

## Expiration

> When defining [users](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/user) and [access methods](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/access/), ensure that you set a specific [session and token duration](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/authentication#expiration) whenever possible using the `DURATION` clause.
> 
> Default values provided by SurrealDB are intended to support cases where SurrealDB is used as a traditional backend database, which is why sessions do not expire by default. If you are building an application where your end users will directly connect with SurrealDB, we strongly encourage setting a session expiration that is as short as possible (typically a few hours) to provide a good experience to your users  without compromising security. Expiring user sessions ensures that a user will not be able to remain authenticated long after their access has been revoked. This cannot be done on demand, as users sessions are not persisted in the database. However, unlike tokens, user sessions are not typically susceptible to be stolen, as they exist only in the context of an established WebSocket connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When defining [users](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/user) and [access methods](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/access/), ensure that you set a specific [session and token duration](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/authentication#expiration) whenever possible using the `DURATION` clause.

Default values provided by SurrealDB are intended to support cases where SurrealDB is used as a traditional backend database, which is why sessions do not expire by default. Suppose you build an application where your end users directly connect with SurrealDB. In that case, we strongly encourage setting a session expiration that is as short as possible (typically a few hours) to provide a good experience to your users without compromising security. 

Expiring user sessions ensures that a user cannot remain authenticated long after their access has been revoked. This cannot be done on demand, as user sessions do not persist in the database. However, unlike tokens, user sessions are not typically susceptible to being stolen, as they exist only in the context of an established WebSocket connection.
```

> **Examples**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Set a session duration
```

```surql
DEFINE USER username ON DATABASE PASSWORD 'CHANGE_THIS' DURATION FOR SESSION 5d;
```

```surql
DEFINE ACCESS account ON DATABASE TYPE RECORD
	SIGNUP ( CREATE user SET email = $email, pass = crypto::argon2::generate($pass) )
	SIGNIN ( SELECT * FROM user WHERE email = $email AND crypto::argon2::compare(pass, $pass) )
	DURATION FOR SESSION 12h
;
```

> Tokens, however, are usually stored in the client (e.g. a web browser) and may be stolen by client-side attacks such as a cross-site scripting vulnerability in your application. For this reason, we strongly recommend reducing token duration from the default one hour to the minimum amount of time that your use case can tolerate. Ideally, a token should only be valid for as log as the client needs in order to use the token to establish a session, which can be as little as a few seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokens, however, are usually stored in the client (e.g. a web browser) and may be stolen by client-side attacks such as a cross-site scripting vulnerability in your application. For this reason, we strongly recommend reducing the token duration from the default one hour to the minimum amount of time that your use case can tolerate. Ideally, a token should only be valid for as long as the client needs to use it to establish a session, which can be as little as a few seconds.
```

> **Examples**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Set a token duration
```

```surql
DEFINE USER username ON DATABASE PASSWORD 'CHANGE_THIS' DURATION FOR TOKEN 15m;
```

```surql
DEFINE ACCESS account ON DATABASE TYPE RECORD
	SIGNUP ( CREATE user SET email = $email, pass = crypto::argon2::generate($pass) )
	SIGNIN ( SELECT * FROM user WHERE email = $email AND crypto::argon2::compare(pass, $pass) )
	DURATION FOR TOKEN 5s
;
```

## Query Safety

> When using SurrealDB as a traditional backend database, your application will usually build SurrealQL queries that may need to contain some untrusted input, such as that provided by the users of your application. To do so, SurrealDB offers [`bind`](https://surrealdb.com/docs/sdk/rust/setup#query) as a method to `query` (implemented in other SDKs as [the `vars` argument to `query`](https://surrealdb.com/docs/sdk/javascript/setup#query)), which should always be used when including untrusted input into queries. Otherwise, SurrealDB will be unable to separate the actual query syntax from the user input, resulting in the well-known [SQL injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=SQL_injection&oldid=1234729055) vulnerabilities. This practice is known as [prepared statements or parametrised queries](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Prepared_statement&oldid=1195122133). Binding parameters ensures that untrusted data is passed to SurrealDB as SurrealQL parameters, which are independent from the query syntax, preventing SQL injection attacks.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using SurrealDB as a traditional backend database, your application will usually build SurrealQL queries that may need to contain some untrusted input, such as that provided by the users of your application. To do so, SurrealDB offers [`bind`](/docs/sdk/rust/setup#query) as a method to `query` (implemented in other SDKs as [the `vars` argument to `query`](/docs/sdk/javascript/core/data-querying), which should always be used when including untrusted input into queries. Otherwise, SurrealDB will be unable to separate the actual query syntax from the user input, resulting in the well-known [SQL injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL_injection) vulnerabilities. This practice is known as [prepared statements or parametrised queries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prepared_statement). 

Binding parameters ensure that untrusted data is passed to SurrealDB as SurrealQL parameters, which are independent of the query syntax, preventing SQL injection attacks.
```

Author: I agree with the suggestion, but you reverted the changes that I made to Wikipedia links as requested by @Dhghomon :sweat_smile:

Reviewer: ah my bad! I added the links back but kept the text formatting

> **Examples**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Bind parameters in Rust SDK
```

```rust
// Rust SDK
// Do this:
let name = "tobie"; // User-controlled input.
let mut result = db
    .query("CREATE person CONTENT name = $name")
    .bind(("name", name))
    .await?;
```

```rust
// Rust SDK
// highlight-next-line
// Do NOT do this:
let name = "tobie"; // User-controlled input.
let mut result = db
    .query(format!("CREATE person CONTENT name = {name}"))
    .await?;
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Example: Bind parameters in JavaScript SDK 
```

```jsx
// JavaScript SDK
// Do this:
const name = "tobie"; // User-controlled input.
const result = await db.query(
	'CREATE person CONTENT name = "$name";',
	{ name: name }
);
```

```jsx
// JavaScript SDK
// highlight-next-line
// Do NOT do this:
const name = "tobie"; // User-controlled input.
const result = await db.query('CREATE person CONTENT name = "' + name + '";');
```

## Content Safety

> Content generated by users and other untrusted parties will often be stored in SurrealDB and later rendered in an HTML page to be displayed. Regardless of SurrealDB, rendering untrusted content is the source of some dangerous pitfalls which can lead to [cross-site scripting](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cross-site_scripting&oldid=1232455342) attacks and other client-side code injection issues like [site defacement](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Website_defacement&oldid=1231310592) or [clickjacking](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Clickjacking&oldid=1227193298).
> 
> When retrieving content that may be rendered in an HTML document, we strongly recommend that you use the [`string::html::encode`](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/functions/database/string#stringhtmlencode) function, which will encode any characters that have special meaning in HTML syntax (e.g. `<`, `>`, `&`...) into HTML entities (e.g. `&lt;`, `&gt;`, `&amp;`...) that will be rendered as the actual original character instead of interpreted as HTML syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Content generated by users and other untrusted parties will often be stored in SurrealDB and later rendered in an HTML page to be displayed. Regardless of SurrealDB, rendering untrusted content is the source of some dangerous pitfalls which can lead to [cross-site scripting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_scripting) attacks and other client-side code injection issues like [site defacement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Website_defacement) or [clickjacking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clickjacking).

When retrieving content that may be rendered in an HTML document, we strongly recommend that you use the [`string::html::encode`](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/functions/database/string#stringhtmlencode) function, which will encode any characters that have special meaning in HTML syntax (e.g. `<`, `>`, `&`...) into HTML entities (e.g. `&lt;`, `&gt;`, `&amp;`...) that will be rendered as the actual original character instead of interpreted as HTML syntax.
```

Author: Why revert this? I did it as suggested by @Dhghomon.

Reviewer: updated

> **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Encode HTML content
```

```surql
RETURN string::html::encode("<h1>Safe Title</h1><script>alert('XSS')</script><p>Safe paragraph. Not safe <span onload='logout()'>event</span>.</p>");

['&lt;h1&gt;Safe&#32;Title&lt;&#47;h1&gt;&lt;script&gt;alert(&apos;XSS&apos;)&lt;&#47;script&gt;&lt;p&gt;Safe&#32;paragraph.&#32;Not&#32;safe&#32;&lt;span&#32;onload&#61;&apos;logout()&apos;&gt;event&lt;&#47;span&gt;.&lt;&#47;p&gt;']
```

> If you absolutely require user-generated content to be rendered as HTML but still want to prevent users from injecting dangerous HTML into your page, you can use the [`string::html::sanitize`](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/functions/database/string#stringhtmlsanitize) function instead, which will keep all characters intact, so that the content can be interpreted as HTML syntax, while removing the specific syntax that is deemed dangerous. It is important to note that, although the set of accepted syntax is very conservative, sanitization is less safe that encoding and could potentially be bypassed due to a flaw in the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you absolutely require user-generated content to be rendered as HTML but still want to prevent users from injecting dangerous HTML into your page, you can use the [`string::html::sanitize`](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/functions/database/string#stringhtmlsanitize) function instead, which will keep all characters intact, so that the content can be interpreted as HTML syntax, while removing the specific syntax that is deemed dangerous. It is important to note that, although the set of accepted syntax is very conservative, sanitization is less safe that encoding and could potentially be bypassed due to a flaw in the function.
```

**Example**

```surql

RETURN string::html::sanitize("<h1>Safe Title</h1><script>alert('XSS')</script><p>Safe paragraph. Not safe <span onload='logout()'>event</span>.</p>");

['<h1>Safe Title</h1><p>Safe paragraph. Not safe <span>event</span>.</p>']
```

## JSON Web Tokens

> When configuring how [JSON Web Tokens](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519) are verified before authenticating a [system](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/authentication#system-users) or [record](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/authentication#record-users) user with [`DEFINE ACCESS ... TYPE JWT`](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/access/jwt) or [`DEFINE ACCESS ... TYPE RECORD ... WITH JWT`](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/access/record#with-json-web-token), we recommend using an asymmetric algorithm (i.e. `PSXXX`,  `RSXXX` , `ECXXX`) when only a mechanism for token verification is being defined. This ensures that the only key stored by SurrealDB is a public key that does not represent a threat in the event of a compromise. On the other hand, symmetric algorithms (i.e. `HSXXX`) use the same key for signature and verification, which the attacker would be able to use to issue tokens that would be trusted by SurrealDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring how [JSON Web Tokens](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519) are verified before authenticating a [system](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/authentication#system-users) or [record](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/authentication#record-users) user with [`DEFINE ACCESS ... TYPE JWT`](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/access/jwt) or [`DEFINE ACCESS ... TYPE RECORD ... WITH JWT`](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/access/record#with-json-web-token), we recommend using an asymmetric algorithm (i.e. `PSXXX`,  `RSXXX` , `ECXXX`) when only a mechanism for token verification is being defined. This ensures that the only key stored by SurrealDB is a public key that does not represent a threat in the event of a compromise.

On the other hand, symmetric algorithms (i.e., HSXXX) use the same key for signature and verification, which the attacker could use to issue tokens that SurrealDB would trust.
```

> **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Define a JWT access
```

Author: I would just say "Define JWT access" or "Define a JWT access method".

Reviewer: Updated
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=
-----END PUBLIC KEY-----";
```

Additionally, we recommend using [JSON Web Key Sets](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517) to configure the verification algorithm and key from a remote authoritative source using the `URL` clause instead of providing them directly to SurrealDB using the `ALGORITHM` and `KEY` clauses. This ensures that the original token issuer will be able to rotate keys in the event of a compromise to prevent potentially compromised tokens to be used with your application without affecting the availability of your service.

> **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Define a JWT access with a JWKS
```

Author: I would just say "Define JWT access with JWKS" or "Define a JWT access method with JWKS".

Author: Addressed in [d56a22c](https://github.com/surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com/pull/651/commits/d56a22c380c2d35275ec64ebc264ac3c1f21e194).

```surql
DEFINE ACCESS token ON DATABASE TYPE RECORD WITH JWT
URL "https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json";
```

## Network Exposure

> When deploying SurrealDB, we recommend that you limit the attack surface as much as possible in order to minimise the risk of attacks or information gathering from unauthorised parties. If your database should only be available to other internal services, we suggest that you do this by exposing SurrealDB exclusively to the internal network instead of deploying the service with a publicly addressable network interface that is accessible from the internet, regardless of whether or not allowlisting has been applied at the networking or application level.
> 
> If you must publish SurrealDB to the internet (e.g. in the case where your users directly connect to SurrealDB), you may want to monitor and prevent unwanted connections using tools such as a network [intrusion prevention system](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Intrusion_detection_system&oldid=1223972754#Intrusion_prevention) or a [web application firewall](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Web_application_firewall&oldid=1234730173). If you do so, ensure that these systems are appropriately tuned and do not interfere with the regular use of SurrealDB.
> 
> In cases where SurrealDB is publicly exposed in environments where any sort of information leakage is unacceptable, the `--no-identification-headers` flag can be enabled, which will result in the SurrealDB server no longer responding to HTTP requests with headers that identify the product or its current version to prevent passive fingerprinting and metadata indexing. Note that this will not prevent active fingerprinting such as directly querying the `/version` endpoint if available or directly attempting to exploit a known security vulnerability without regard for compatibility. On the other hand, consider whether or not enabling this feature is compatible with your clients, which may rely on these headers in order to identify the version of SurrealDB running on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying SurrealDB, we recommend limiting the attack surface as much as possible to minimise the risk of attacks or information gathering from unauthorised parties. If your database should only be available to other internal services, we suggest that you expose SurrealDB exclusively to the internal network instead of deploying the service with a publicly addressable network interface that is accessible from the internet, regardless of whether or not allow listing has been applied at the networking or application level.

If you must publish SurrealDB to the internet (e.g., If your users directly connect to SurrealDB), you may want to monitor and prevent unwanted connections using tools such as a network [intrusion prevention system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intrusion_detection_system#Intrusion_prevention) or a [web application firewall](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_application_firewall). If you do so, ensure that these systems are appropriately tuned and do not interfere with the regular use of SurrealDB.

In cases where SurrealDB is publicly exposed in environments where any sort of information leakage is unacceptable, the `--no-identification-headers` flag can be enabled, which will result in the SurrealDB server no longer responding to HTTP requests with headers that identify the product or its current version to prevent passive fingerprinting and metadata indexing. Note that this will not prevent active fingerprinting such as directly querying the `/version` endpoint if available or directly attempting to exploit a known security vulnerability without regard for compatibility. On the other hand, consider whether or not enabling this feature is compatible with your clients, who may rely on these headers to identify the version of SurrealDB running on the server.
```

Author: Same thing with the Wikipedia links.

Author: I think "allow listing" (to allow the listing of something) and "allowlisting" (the less controversial alternative to "whitelisting") are distinctly different concepts. I would keep the original format. Also, what style are we using that does not allow "(e.g. something)" without a comma and capitalization?

Author: In this case, "which" refers to clients which are inanimate software. I think "who" would be incorrect here.

Author: I have addressed most of the changes in [d56a22c](https://github.com/surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com/pull/651/commits/d56a22c380c2d35275ec64ebc264ac3c1f21e194) but I have left the ones that I had issue with intact. I am happy to discuss further if you have strong opinions or if we have style guidelines that require the changes.

> **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Start SurrealDB without identification headers
```

> Accept: */*
>
* Mark bundle as not supporting multiuse
< HTTP/1.1 307 Temporary Redirect
< location: https://surrealdb.com/app
< access-control-allow-origin: *
< vary: origin
< vary: access-control-request-method
< vary: access-control-request-headers
# highlight-start
< surreal-version: surrealdb-2.0.0+20240612.2184e80f
< server: SurrealDB
# highlight-end
< x-request-id: 157413ce-7cc4-41a1-a93b-0940bf87874c
< content-length: 0
< date: Mon, 17 Jun 2024 15:47:29 GMT
<
* Connection #0 to host 127.0.0.1 left intact

# When launched with "--no-identification-headers":
$ curl -vvv "127.0.0.1:8000"
*   Trying 127.0.0.1:8000...
* Connected to 127.0.0.1 (127.0.0.1) port 8000 (#0)
> GET / HTTP/1.1
> Host: 127.0.0.1:8000
> User-Agent: curl/7.81.0
> Accept: */*
>
* Mark bundle as not supporting multiuse
< HTTP/1.1 307 Temporary Redirect
< location: https://surrealdb.com/app
< access-control-allow-origin: *
< vary: origin
< vary: access-control-request-method
< vary: access-control-request-headers
< x-request-id: deec3301-e930-4389-a0da-b2a336bd2631
< content-length: 0
< date: Mon, 17 Jun 2024 15:49:43 GMT
<
* Connection #0 to host 127.0.0.1 left intact
```

## Least Privilege

> When defining [system users](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/authentication#system-users) in SurrealDB, you may assign them [roles](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/user#roles) that will limit the actions they can perform inside the level where they are defined. Ensure that you employ the principle of least privilege and create users at the lowest level possible and with the minimum role in order to be able to perform their duties inside of SurrealDB. This will mitigate some of the risk in the case where credentials for that user are ever compromised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When defining [system users](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/security/authentication#system-users) in SurrealDB, you may assign them [roles](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/define/user#roles) that will limit the actions they can perform inside the level where they are defined. Ensure that you employ the principle of least privilege and create users at the lowest level possible and with the minimum role in order to be able to perform their duties inside of SurrealDB. This will mitigate some of the risk in the case where credentials for that user are ever compromised.
```

> **Examples**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Define users with least privilege
```

Author: Probably not "least privilege" as that will depend on the use case. I would instead say "Define users with specific roles".

A user who only needs to query the database:

```surql
DEFINE USER db_viewer ON DATABASE PASSWORD 'CHANGE_THIS' ROLES VIEWER;
```

A user who only needs to manage content in any databases on the same namespace:

```surql
DEFINE USER ns_editor ON NAMESPACE PASSWORD 'CHANGE_THIS' ROLES EDITOR;
```

## Encryption in Transit

> Encryption in transit is recommended specially when deploying SurrealDB on a server in a different network than its clients. This mitigates the impact of man-in-the-middle attacks and provides confidentially and integrity guarantees with regards to the data being exchanged. Encryption in transit can be achieved by using the SurrealDB server to serve its interfaces through HTTPS by providing the `--web-crt` and `--web-key` arguments when calling [the `start` subcommand in the CLI](https://surrealdb.com/docs/surrealdb/2.x/cli/start#command-help). For production deployments, we recommend that TLS termination is performed by a load balancer or reverse proxy that will often provide additional guarantees to the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encryption in transit is recommended, especially when deploying SurrealDB on a server in a different network than its clients. This mitigates the impact of man-in-the-middle attacks and provides confidentiality and integrity guarantees with regard to the data being exchanged. Encryption in transit can be achieved by using the SurrealDB server to serve its interfaces through HTTPS by providing the `--web-crt` and `--web-key` arguments when calling [the `start` subcommand in the CLI](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/cli/start#command-help). For production deployments, we recommend that TLS termination be performed by a load balancer or reverse proxy, which will often provide additional guarantees to the process.
```

> **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Start SurrealDB with TLS
```

```bash
# If you want to serve TLS directly with SurrealDB:
surreal start --web-crt "cert.pem" --web-key "key.pem"
```

## Encryption at Rest

> Encryption at rest is recommended specially when storing sensitive data in a location where you cannot guarantee the security of the storage media. If encryption at rest is not used, physical access to the storage media may result in complete compromise to the data stored. It is important to note that most kinds of encryption at rest will not prevent logical attacks from resulting in compromise of the data, as such attacks will often access the data using the compromised system as a [confused deputy](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Confused_deputy_problem&oldid=1230222963) in order to leverage its ability to access data after it is already decrypted.

Author: Same regarding the Wikipedia links.

> Encryption at rest is recommended specially when storing sensitive data in a location where you cannot guarantee the security of the storage media. If encryption at rest is not used, physical access to the storage media may result in complete compromise to the data stored. It is important to note that most kinds of encryption at rest will not prevent logical attacks from resulting in compromise of the data, as such attacks will often access the data using the compromised system as a [confused deputy](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Confused_deputy_problem&oldid=1230222963) in order to leverage its ability to access data after it is already decrypted.

Author: I think "a complete compromise" should be "the complete compromise".

> Encryption at rest is recommended specially when storing sensitive data in a location where you cannot guarantee the security of the storage media. If encryption at rest is not used, physical access to the storage media may result in complete compromise to the data stored. It is important to note that most kinds of encryption at rest will not prevent logical attacks from resulting in compromise of the data, as such attacks will often access the data using the compromised system as a [confused deputy](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Confused_deputy_problem&oldid=1230222963) in order to leverage its ability to access data after it is already decrypted.

Author: Addressed in [d56a22c](https://github.com/surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com/pull/651/commits/d56a22c380c2d35275ec64ebc264ac3c1f21e194).

> Encryption at rest is recommended specially when storing sensitive data in a location where you cannot guarantee the security of the storage media. If encryption at rest is not used, physical access to the storage media may result in complete compromise to the data stored. It is important to note that most kinds of encryption at rest will not prevent logical attacks from resulting in compromise of the data, as such attacks will often access the data using the compromised system as a [confused deputy](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Confused_deputy_problem&oldid=1230222963) in order to leverage its ability to access data after it is already decrypted.

Author: Oops, missed a word and fixed it in [0ba4f56](https://github.com/surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com/pull/651/commits/0ba4f5665f70102204d11acd55d6b582e9fb2ac4).

> Encryption at rest is recommended specially when storing sensitive data in a location where you cannot guarantee the security of the storage media. If encryption at rest is not used, physical access to the storage media may result in complete compromise to the data stored. It is important to note that most kinds of encryption at rest will not prevent logical attacks from resulting in compromise of the data, as such attacks will often access the data using the compromised system as a [confused deputy](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Confused_deputy_problem&oldid=1230222963) in order to leverage its ability to access data after it is already decrypted.

Reviewer: Either works tbh, while reading the next line should be "of" though
